# Iowa Gambling Task

This is a version of the Iowa Gambling Task programmed in Python that I am developing to use in combination with Study 4 outlined within Project 31297 of my [Neuro_Uncertainty Reposity](https://github.com/wj-mitchell/Neuro_Uncertainty). 

## Description
The task is mostly self-contained within the `Task.py` file. I have been running it through PsychoPy Runner, though it doesn't currently contain any PsychoPy code. Upon starting, you are prompted to enter a PID formatted as `DD-####` in line with the needs of our specific study; though this is simple to modify for your own purposes. Keep in mind if you do modify it, that it's designed to validate the PID according to that format, so be sure to change that as well. You then must choose whether you'd like to use a random or fixed reward schedule. Random reward schedules are generated within the script. Fixed reward schedules are hard-coded within a .csv called `reward_schedule.csv`. You are then presented with an instruction screen and a start screen, both of which progress by pressing the space bar. The task itself presents four labelled card decks arranged in a square. Selecting any card deck requires pressing the 1, 2, 3, or 4 key on your keyboard. Once that occurs, the image of the card will be replaced by another with a glow around it, to signify the subject's choice. Feedback regarding wins and losses appears at the center of the screen for 2 seconds before the next choice can be made. A net score is visible throughout the task in the upper right corner. The endowment subjects begin with is $2000. The total number of trials is 100, in line with what I've seen as the standard. Also as is standard, a limit of 40 selections per deck has been implemented, though this can easily be modified via function argument.

All images of the card decks are contained within the `assets` directory. Each deck has a `_selected` and `_unselected` .png image. The glow that defines the `_selected` .png images was generated within and exported from Microsoft Powerpoint. 

The data generated by the task exports to the `data` directory and should output once the task ends, regardless of whether the task was completed. Additionally, a summary of task choices is output to the window in which it is ran (i.e., PsychoPy Runner, Python Terminal, etc.). The outputted data includes the trial numbers, the rewards and penalties for each trial, which deck subjects selected during each trial, and trial duration. 

## Stimulations.R
I constructed a script to simulate how individuals might play the Iowa Gambling task, making decisions informed by the feedback subjects receive, so that I could predict likely payouts. This simulation is ran *n* times (default is 20,000) and a payout distribution is generated. It also does this if the same deck were selected 100 times to define the extremes of possibly decision-making.

## Relevant Literature:
+ [Insensitivity to future consequences following damage to human prefrontal cortex](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0010027794900183)
+ [Deciding Advantageously Before Knowing the Advantageous Strategy](https://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/document?repid=rep1&type=pdf&doi=7ae6ade70d76c3cbefa432d735c2881949875b95)
+ [The Iowa Gambling Task: A Review of the Historical Evolution, Scientific Basis, and Use in Functional Neuroimaging](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/2158244019856911)
+ [Underlying decision making processes on Iowa Gambling Task](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1876201818305197#:~:text=Also%2C%20in%20IGT%20with%20100,series%20of%20100%20card%20selections)

## TO-DO:
* Modify the instructions
* Move the Task functions over to utilities to modularize them
* Add warning about pressing the button in between trials OR try to make it robust to these
* Review the relevant literature and confirm that this manifestation of the task is compliant with previous standards 
